In this section,
we're going to use Spring integration to connect to MariaDB using the JDBC API.
MariaDB is a fork of MySQL that is intended to remain free and
open‑source software under the new general public license.
It was forked due to concerns of the acquisition of MySQL by Oracle and
is a drop in replacement for MySQL and it's a APIs.
Because of its license and compatibility with MySQL,
many companies have opted to use MariaDB instead of MySQL.
Regardless,
we can use MariaDB to learn how to integrate with a
relational database using the JDBC APIs.
In order to query MariaDB for new rows matching specific criteria,
we're going to use the JdbcPollingChannelAdapter.
The JdbcPollingChannelAdapter is a message source that
we'll configure with an InboundChannelAdapter annotation to
query MariaDB for a set of rows, and then publish those rows to a channel.
When we want to write a record to MariaDB,
we'll use a JdbcMessageHandler annotated with a ServiceActivater and define
an INSERT SQL statement used to write a row to MariaDB.
Let's look at how to create a JDBC InboundChannelAdapter.
First we create an InboundChannelAdapter with a 1 second poller that
publishes messages to the newReservationListChannel.
We create a JdbcPollingChannelAdapter,
specifying a select statement that is executed every time
the poller invokes the message source.
In this case,
we select all rows from the reservation table that have a status value of 0.
Then we define a RowMapper that receives a JDBC results set
and returns a new reservation object.
Finally,
we define an update statement to execute after the select statement finishes.
This step is optional, but if we don't update the reservation status,
then we'll receive all matching rows every 1 second.
So we set the status value to 1 for all rows that match the IDs
returned by the initial select statement.
The JdbcPollingChannelAdapter returns matching rows as a list of reservations,
so we define a splitter that returns the payload as a list of reservations.
Recall that the splitter will create new messages for each record in the list.
In this way, we'll receive one message for each reservation.
Turning our attention to the OutboundChannelAdapter,
we create a new message handler with a ServiceActivater that
receives messages from an inputChannel.
We create a JdbcMessageHandler instance,
passing it an INSERT SQL statement that inserts
values into the reservation table.
Under the hood, the JdbcMessageHandler is going to create a prepared statement,
and its setPreparedStatementSetter method will be called with a prepared
statement instance and the message it wants to insert.
We retrieve the message payload, cast it to a reservation,
and then set the Id and name properties.
For our example, consider another reservation system that doesn't send messages,
but rather inserts rows into its reservation database.
On the inbound side,
we'll create a JdbcPollingChannelAdapter with a 1 second poller that
retrieves the reservations and publishes them to a channel.
As you saw,
we're going to create a splitter that publishes one reservation
at a time to a reservation channel that will be received and
processed by a reservation listener.
On the outbound side, we're going to define a reservation service that,
when it's invoked,
publishes a reservation message to a channel that will be received by a
JdbcMessageHandler that will write it to our database.
The Docker image that we're going to use for this
example is the latest version of MariaDB,
which has over 10 million downloads.
You can start it with the Docker run command,
docker run ‑d to run it as a daemon process,
‑p to specify that we want to expose port 3306 on the container,
as port 3306 on the local machine,
‑e to set the environment variable MySQL_ROOT_PASSWORD= password,
which, as its name implies,
is the root password for the MariaDB instance to password,
and finally mariadb, which is the name of the image.
Next, we need to create the reservation DB database in MariaDB.
You can either create a terminal session into the
container and run the MySQL command, or you can execute it all in one statement.
First,
you need to run the Docker PS command to find the ID of the MariaDB container,
and then you can run the Docker exec command,
docker exec, and then the container‑id, and then the command,
mysql ‑u to specify the username of root,
‑ p with the password of password, and then ‑e,
and the command to execute, create database reservationdb.
From here,
the sample code has a schema SQL file that will
create the reservation table for us.
Let's dive into the code and see this in action.
We'll begin by building our application.
We'll start by reviewing the configuration,
both the Spring configuration and the schema SQL file.
Then we'll build our InboundChannelAdapter and reservation listener service,
and then we'll build our OutboundChannelAdapter and reservation
service. We'll run the application to write reservations to MariaDB, and then read those reservations from MariaDB.